The Joe Rogan experience. Well, Mike Baker tried to explain Walway to me.
And one of the things that he, Mike Baker from the CIA,
one of the things that he was explaining, he said,
you have to realize that there is no such thing as industry,
independent of government in China. If you have something like Walway,
if you have a giant corporation,
they are inexorably connected to the Chinese government.
And the moves they make are not necessarily designed for, you know,
the infinite growth paradigm.
This idea that we have in the United States with corporations are beholding.
The stockholders are just trying to make money.
That's not what they're doing over there. They have a long game.
And the long game involves information involves espionage,
involves stealing, uh,
trade secrets and patents from other companies.
And so when they're selling them these modems,
they've got built in third party options. So the third party,
meaning China can extract information. So if you're,
if someone has this modem and they're using this modem to send information to
someone in Beirut,
China can also get that information. Yeah.
They do a lot of cyber. I mean,
that that's been a thing that's been known for a long time, that there they'll,
you know, Jack patents and intellectual property, and they have this whole,
you know, economy that's kind of thriving off technology that's made elsewhere.
That's certainly an issue. Um,
but also I would argue that is probably the case with the U S too,
that this kind of distinction between corporations in the state is largely of a
near,
because you have such control of our political process because of big money from
corporations flowing into the system.
So I think that a lot of these decisions that are made,
even when it comes to foreign policy are directly in relation to how it will
impact those corporations.
Like the thing that I remember was a light bulb moment for me back in the day,
when I first learned about it was the banana wars.
Have you ever heard about this back in the day?
I think it was in the late 18 hundreds, but don't quote me on that. Um,
we just went into south America and started toppling governments because we
wanted to Jack their bananas and it was literally further, I think the Chiquita,
but then the company that we did that really? Yeah. So when you look at that,
you go, okay,
well that kind of distinction between corporation and government is not even
really a thing here. It's like this veneer that's in between the two,
but really it's the powerful moneyed interests in the elites that kind of run
everything. And they're married at the hip,
whether they're in the government or whether they're in corporations.
I think this was the late 1890s. Again,
I'm more than happy to be fact checked on this. But, um,
I remember the first time I read about this, it had to be in college,
the banana wars. I was like, that's insane for.
Bananas.
It's great.
Well, how about when you,
you go throughout history and you find out that a lot of the wars were over
salt.
I didn't even know that. I didn't know. They killed.
People for salt was very important back in the day because they didn't have
refrigerators.
So in order to preserve things and keep them from being infected by bacteria,
they would pour salt all over their meat and salt, all of their fish.
And that's how they preserve things. Right.
You get apparently preserve things for long periods of times when you completely
cover them with salt.
Yeah. So it's, I guess,
I guess it's just always been a thing that it's like wars over resources.
Now there's a lot about oil, but like.
We're accustomed to the oil stuff. Yeah.
You're right. We have been used to that for quite a while.
And it's interesting because what just happened with Syria and Trump,
that was fascinating. Is he, at first he said, oh, we're getting out of Syria.
We're getting out of Northern Syria. Everybody went crazy and said, oh my God,
what about the Kurds?
And then we come to find out like three or four days later that he's like, well,
no, we're actually taking these troops from Northern Syria,
moving them over into Western Iraq.
And they're going to be doing the same thing that they've been doing from
Western Iraq. And then Trump had the nerve to go out there and say,
and we've secured the oil. It's so tremendous. We've secured the oil.
We're not going to make the same mistake. Like we made in Iraq again.
And this is something that he had been saying at SeaPak that conservative
political action conference going back for years every year, he'd give a speech.
And, um, he actually said like, we should, we should have taken the oil.
We should have taken the oil in Iraq because we didn't want ISIS to have it.
And we should have it instead of ISIS. And it's like,
he's he actually ripped the mask off of everything we're doing because he has no
filter. And it's like, yeah, that was a big part of it.
But what he's just admitting in front of the world is international law.
It means nothing. We don't care about, uh, you know,
the proper process we don't care about. Like imagine for a second,
China did that to us and they're like, no big deal or anything,
but we're just going to go into Texas.
And we're just going to Jack all your oil, but don't worry because it's okay.
We're allowed to do that. Cause we say, we're allowed to do that. We'd be like,
what are you talking about? But we're going to do that to a sovereign country,
Syria, as we pretend like we care so deeply about civilian or Syrian civilians.
And that's why we're there to protect them. Like no,
we're there to check their oil.
That's what we're trying to do and control the region.
It's so disturbing when it's that transparent.
Exactly. But that's see. That's, it's interesting to be a better, well,
that's what I was just about to say next is that some people make the argument
that, well, at least there's no tap dancing. Whereas with all,
all the other presidents, they have this,
this like fake holier than thou attitude where they really can like put a happy
face on a disgusting thing, like empire where Trump is.
And I think it's fair to say,
he's like too stupid to really go through the tap dance. And so people are like,
Hey, there it is. It's like, it's right in front of our face.
But what's interesting about him is he says both things at the same time.
Like he has the political instincts enough to know that people think
war is generally bad.
So he always goes out there and he talks about how he thinks war is generally
bad and we gotta get our troops out of the middle east.
I don't know why we're there. It's so stupid to do in the first place.
But when you look at what he's actually doing, it doesn't match his rhetoric.
So I don't know if you remember this, but like a year or so ago, he tweeted, uh,
we're getting out of Afghanistan. Finally.
After all these years we've been there for 18 years. It was terrible.
We should have never been in there in the first place.
And then we just didn't get out. He said that acted like we were going to do it.
And then the generals by the scenes were like, that's a good one.
And we never got out. And then he just stopped talking about it.
We're still there. But he say, he just says it. He's like, oh,
we're going to get out of Iraq. Then he doesn't do it. So happens is he gets,
it's actually politically it's.
It comes across sometimes as a positive because nobody follows up with it and
the media doesn't do their job and say, wait,
we didn't actually get out of there.
But so it comes across as a positive politically because he's still doing the
head fakes towards non-intervention with people agree with,
but it's business as usual behind the scenes. How much.
Time do you think he actually spends on any of these things?
And if he does spend time, how does he have the time to do these interviews?
How does he have the time to tweet? How does he have the time to watch Fox news?
I mean, I really want to know like how much interaction he actually has with his
cabinet. Like how much interaction does he actually have with the generals?
How much interact.
That's that's the dirty little secret Joe, is that it can't be much.
It's not because what he really does is he watches Fox news all day and tweets
out there videos and Eddy tweets all day. Well, how, yeah. Right.
How can you be doing that? And then also doing what we think you should do.
Look, I don't have any time. And all I do is do podcasts that's right.
So I watch him and I'm like, this doesn't make any sense.
No. So here's the thing.
And there was a story that was reported before he became president.
I think it was after he got the Republican nomination,
there was this interesting story that it wasn't discussed too much,
but I thought it was fascinating because, uh,
the Trump team apparently approached John Casick who just like kind of a
standard establishment Republican.
And he was the governor of may have been Ohio. Uh,
but I'm not sure if it was one of those states over there, but anyway,
so he approached John Casick and basically said to him, boss behind the scenes,
Hey, listen, man, if I end up winning this election,
I want you to kind of like be my vice president run the day to day at the white
house, take care of dot all the I's cross all the T's do all the work like that.
And I want to go around the country and keep doing rallies and rile up everybody
and get everybody to our side. So basically,
and this shouldn't come as a surprise to anybody what's.
That? Why even if you win, why do you have to rile.
Everybody up? We'll see, he's the first president to never stopped campaigning.
He's always campaigning. He's always doing rallies.
And there's a reason why he's doing that, Joe.
It's the only thing he loves on this earth.
It's that in watching Fox news that he loves.
So that's what he does with all of his time and everything else. Yes.
He's just see, this is the thing, Joe,
he took all these deeply establishment figures, Steve Minutian of Goldman Sachs,
um, Stephen I'm forgetting his name, cone something co Cohen cone.
Another guy from Goldman Sachs. He had all these just career insiders,
brought them into his administration, whether it's with the economy,
with farm policy, John Bolton, deep neo-conservative you said he,
he believed in the opposite philosophy, but then,
but then he pushed John Bolton the power because he wants the system to keep
running as it is and run smoothly while he goes around and just, you know,
makes the name for himself and,
and talks about how amazing and tremendous this country is and what an amazing
job we're doing. So it's funny because he has two different personas.
One of them is I'm going to pretend to be the antiestablishment guy and rally
people up nonstop and be a politician and be good at it.
And then the other thing is behind the scenes. He's like, gosh,
just keep everything running and, and, you know,
hold it together with duct tape, if you have to, before I get out of here.
So at the same time,
he's acting like the most antiestablishment president of all time,
when he's on the campaign trail,
he's also the most deeply pro establishment candidate in terms of,
or president in terms of what he's actually doing.
So it's a fascinating dynamic that's going on right now. It's a giant hustle.
That's right. It's a giant hustle and listen man.
And other people on the left might disagree with me on this,
but I think he's brilliant at it. I think he's brilliant at this part of it,
but where he, he really does have a way,
like he broke every single political rule that ever existed when he ran for
president and he won. So what does that tell you?